video is gonna be the future
so it's much
interactive you can do step by step you
still need to do text-based content but
now you have to do omni-channel you have
to do podcasts video and text you can't
just do one anymore see blogging is much
more competitive there's over a billion
blogs that's roughly one blog for every
seven people in this world
you need to do more than just
create a blog you need to do the video
content you need to do a bit of
everything if you want to do well now
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
no introduction needed neil everyone
knows about you
how you are doing and how popular you
are in india
and
literally
it's been pleasure i was chasing since
very long to make up this interview
finally we did it but literally we'll
take some questions
one of our like team member he is asking
how to write content so that user stick
with it which is also called pogo
sticking so with content few things one
write in
a conversational tone use you and i
uh keep your paragraphs roughly five six
lines max use subheadings so it makes it
easier to skim
uh hook people in into the introduction
with a bold statement and of course a
question so they keep reading more wrap
your conclusion up with the question to
help increase engagement and comments
but following that should help what is
the biggest failure in seo of nil patel
in past times
the the biggest failure for seo for
[Music]
the the biggest failure um
it's been like 15 years you were doing
into like content marketing yeah
vlogging
yeah but the biggest failure i would say
is when i first started off i would do
two too many things that were
short-sighted i used to try doing things
like buying links and cheating google
and looking for loopholes instead of
trying to provide value to people the
readers
and if i did that i would be much
further off in my career
don't look for shortcuts do what's best
for your audience
don't be short-sighted and that was a
huge mistake of mine
wow great i'm just firing questions and
questions uh means can you
say a little bit about indian audience
how they are reacting to your that seo
point of view how india will be the
great market in future in terms of
blogging and
uh content generation and
getting more traffic from india
so it already is uh india is a fast
growing market look at companies like
flipkart right you just have to be
patient and give it time but there's a
ton of money to be made in india as long
as you're a patient
um there's so many people there there's
good volume in seo again you just have
to
give it a few years
with india
that we found is
marketing will pick up more and more as
more people adopt credit cards because
right now in india everything is cod
right so yeah
but i think that'll change in the next
five ten years maybe i'm wrong but i
think it'll start changing and more and
more people will have credit cards
yeah uh
i've seen in one of your videos like you
were saying like indian people have
money but they uh put that money uh
underside of their uh pillow and they
sleep so what was that
so can you uh
uh what we mean by that is
in india
although there's taxes a lot of indians
don't pay taxes
they try to
by saying putting underneath the pillow
is a saying like um
there's a lot of cash money going around
in india
in which it's not all bank account money
so a lot of indians have more money than
people think
yeah great so
well in america most people don't know
this but
indians have the highest median income
in the united states
well neil uh
most important question people generally
ask in india like how to get backlinks
naturally as you have mentioned so many
strategies and tactics so what are your
thoughts about means uh how we'll get
naturally backlinks for our blog post
so what are your words on this
infographics is one of the best ways if
you create good images and infographics
you can get a ton of backlinks over time
naturally i would highly recommend a lot
more people create them
so only infographics are the thing or
some other techniques there's other ways
but it's the best way
and in india you can get them generated
for much more affordable than what we
pay here
yeah so neil uh i want to ask one
question vp people generally face in
their day-to-day life like if you are
ranking on second page of
google for certain keyword how you will
make up to the first page in first third
three positions
uh what will be your strategy how you'll
do and means boost your ranking from
second to first page
so one i would look at all the content
for the people in the top 10
and try to look what differences their
content versus mine and make mine more
thorough i would use tools like
ubersuggest and put in the keyword that
i'm ranking for and find all the long
tail versions and put that in there as
well because that's extra traffic that i
could be getting
and then what i would do is use the link
intersect tool from ahrefs because you
can see two links to people in the top
10 but not you
and then hit those people up and ask
them to link to your page as well
yeah great meal so i want to ask one
personal question if you don't mind so
neil have you been to india
or
yeah so any plans for future if you are
visiting in india i mean
anything i have no plans at the moment
but i do want to come back you know soon
again people are really excited they're
dying to see you here in india i i love
india i want to end up creating a
company there but i haven't found uh
uh
the right business partner yet who's in
india so that way i can create a
educational company
yeah i want to create my own mini
university where i teach people all the
latest markets
not just um yeah so neil i i just want
to ask one uh question like uh
what will be the future of text based
content
uh what are your thoughts i i think text
is good but video is gonna be the future
so much
interactive you can do step by step you
still need to do text based content but
now you have to omni channel you have to
do podcast video and text you can't just
do one anymore see blogging is much more
competitive there's over a billion blogs
that's roughly one blog for every seven
people in this world
you need to do more than just
create a blog you need to do the video
content you need to do a bit of
everything if you want to do well now
yeah anil i just want uh one more
question in terms of like abhidhu
asked me uh he asked like how page
layout effect uh
site ranking
yeah uh
page layout affects it very well because
if you don't internal link if it doesn't
load fast
uh cross-linking is very important
uh making sure that text is easy to read
and people can get to it right away and
digest the content all that stuff
impacts rankings since the user's scores
are bad then you're not going to do well
yeah perfect neil uh i've seen so many
people are doing wrong practices they
are making bad links for your blog
so is there bad links like
links from uh
on websites or they may affect your
ranking as you mentioned that nowadays
google
becomes very smart and it won't
calculate or count those links
yeah
google is very smart at it i wouldn't
worry about getting
you know link building i wouldn't worry
about it as much you need to build links
but
keep in mind google looks at so many
more metrics now i would focus on
creating the best product
like if you look at uber suggest the seo
tool have you used it
yeah here when i was logged into paid
tools i was using uber suggest but
nowadays i'm seeing like you are
upgrading uber suggest and uh it's like
uh
it's going to be in the competition of
uh hrefs and semrush i if i'm not wrong
yeah and it's free
so
think about it by building a good
product that tool has over 9000
backlinks
so if you create good stuff you'll
naturally get them you don't have to
worry about penalties or building or any
of that just focus on building really
cool stuff
yeah so nail what are your plans like if
i
if you don't mind my plans are um at
least with uber say yes in the next 45
days i'm releasing a feature where you
can put in a url
and it tells you all the traffic stats
backlinks rankings
uh
top pages
all that kind of stuff
how to increase ctr for high rankings
put the keyword closer to the front have
a very appealing title uh as well as
meta description look at magazines look
at their titles it'll give you ideas on
what people want to click it's not just
about putting keywords it's about making
it appealing like how to and list based
titles still do very well uh things that
evoke curiosity like the seven benefits
of green tea number six will shock you
everyone's gonna be like what is number
six
so
using some of those things will help you
increase how many clicks you're getting
uh tell me a little bit uh i want to ask
like personal stuff i want
you have written blog post already you
have shared your everything you need
about seo blogging video marketing
content marketing everything just i need
to ask literally i want to chat little
bit about your personal stuff how you
manage your time is like you are doing
so many things at a time like you are
generating you are creating producing
video content as well text content as
well podcasting as well so and you are
managing your clients as well so how you
are managing your time how you are like
very busy man
so yeah um
i i have a big team so the team helps
so like curtis he helps set up this
interview
um we have a huge team like mike my
co-founder
he goes into the office each day helps
with the team we have amazing executives
like a guy named nick roshan or jeff
johnson and there's so many people on
our team
who just help out
so uh we have seen your quick q a
thursday so how that thought comes into
your mind like we let's do q a thursday
and we'll answer let's answer some
questions
however it was just random idea we were
just like oh let's try this out for
youtube only so how you get more views
how what to do to get more views on
youtube
yeah so uh one put the keywords in your
title and description use tools like
uber suggests to find the right keywords
three when um
you release a video promote it right
away to your twitter
any social channels email it out
uh use a push notification the other
thing i would end up doing too with your
youtube videos is attractive thumbnail
where people would want to click
and you want to
continually ask questions and increase
engagement so if you tell people to ask
questions or re leave a comment that
really helps boost your videos as well
that'll help you get more browse and
suggested traffic
yeah so neil we just wondered well on
youtube though no you have a few hundred
thousand subscribers in india is that
right yeah i have more than 200k
subscribers in india and really it's
been like uh two years i'm on youtube
and it's growing and how do you make
money on youtube in india ads
yeah youtube ads and
like adsense
sponsorships likewise i make money
and i do have clients
in india
yeah
so
neil uh let's ask some personal question
we'll ask two or three personal
questions uh neil how you celebrated
your christmas
i
just celebrated with family opened up
presents and
i worked a lot as well
yeah we know you work a lot neil
so uh
how was your new year like earlier we
scheduled the interview
because of some reasons it can't happen
but how you celebrated your new year in
in 2019 what are your plans and what
will going to see new in 2019 from neil
patel
yeah so uh
new year's day or eve or i didn't do
much i stayed in
as for my new year's plan i'm going to
release more features with uber suggest
keep growing the companies
and i'm going to be producing much more
video content
yeah great like you mentioned uh in one
of your video uh i've seen like you said
focus more on promoting your text
content earlier you was posting like
random on in a week two or three blog
posts but currently you are posting only
one blog post in a week i think so if
i'm not wrong
so
so new blogger or a blogger they are
doing so what they can do like
they should focus more on promotions or
creating content
promotions see right now there's so many
blogs and content uh
i would write new content i'm jet lagged
um i would write new content like new
stuff that people haven't seen or read
because the web is just so saturated
with text now and then i would spend
majority of the time promoting versus
writing five ten blog posts a week right
one and promote more
yeah so if i'll ask uh what are your
techniques or what are your strategies
where to promote and how to promote the
text-based content you email everyone
who links out to competing blog posts
ask them to share your content or link
to you
look to see who shared all the other
content like using twitter to see who
shared other people's content of someone
asking to share your content anyone that
you link out to in your blog post email
them ask them to share your content
those are the main promotion strategies
i use
so what about quora so what do you uh
quote about kodak how cool is it
i released a blog post today and i
mentioned quora early on in the blog
post um you know anytime it's relevant
any of the popular questions i always
add a link but it doesn't drive as much
traffic as people think
so quora is the best platform for
promoting your content and means
engaging with people not the best but it
is a good platform yeah good platform
okay neil i want to ask this question is
by from my side only how social media
can help a brand to grow organic or paid
so what are the mediums yeah both work
um as long as paid is profitable you
should do as much as possible of it but
when it comes to social media
what i recommend people do is focus on
creating amazing content whether you're
a brand or individual
it's the content and most people don't
create amazing content that's where they
really struggle
if it's not doing well it's a lot of
times it's not because our algorithms
are tough it's because the content's not
as amazing as people would want or
expect
so neil uh
how you were preparing for seo in 2019
2019 i'm writing less i'm focusing more
on tools because it builds backlinks
faster and more
and organically
uh i'm focusing more on video content
and video seo over text based seo
because i think it's wide open
um
what else am i doing in 2019
so what's it
i'm doing a lot with voice search i've
been doing that in 2018 a ton
um i'll be doing more voice search in
2019 because i think it's going to be
popular uh and i'm heavy on mobile right
as well because more and more people in
b2b are using mobile as well
yeah great meal
which tool you use majorly for your
business
means in daily day-to-day life which
tools you use gmail google analytics uh
uber suggests
um slack
skype
those are the main tools
okay neil so
which as per your opinion which is
better youtube or facebook watch
i prefer youtube
you do
yeah great news neil one of my friend
siddharth pal
he is like a marketer facebook ad expert
so he is asking he told me to ask
to neil means how to create a stability
in results you have to build a brand
so if you want stable results and not
fluctuate as much google ranks brands
higher than non-brands
so you got to take omni channel approach
from podcasting to videos to creating
text-based content to creating amazing
product or amazing service to helping
people out to responding to every
comments to being on the social web
by doing everything you'll build a brand
over time and what you'll find is as
your brand queries grow so under your
ranking they stay more stable and they
grow as well
so neil uh i want to ask last last
question so
overthinking and overdoing
so how to reduce overthinking and how to
become more productive as for meals
panda nails thought
how we can do
yeah so overthinking overdoing um you
just go and you execute don't think too
much and don't worry and don't worry
about the fine details just go and do it
and learn as you go along there's
nothing wrong with that that's how most
people got started that's how i got
started and it works well
so neil how how you earn your first
income means
what you sold or how you earn your first
income
income was picking up trash and cleaning
restrooms
so that's why i earned my first and you
know dollar
yeah uh
i've uh i've read your biography and it
was like amazing i felt like once uh
once one last uh my personal thought a
personal story i want to share with you
neil
once i was into my office and i was
reading your blog post i was very
fascinated about your course at that
time
there was your codes like on uh digital
marketing or something kind of thing i
was reading your whole that blog post i
was so much
excited that i have to buy this course i
have to spend thousand dollar and have
to go uh i called my father that i want
to buy your course and i want to be like
neil patel i was passionate about
digital marketing and everything so
i asked i think i mailed you as well
that please
remain the price at thousand uh dollars
only don't increase so
i was thinking but anyhow i was really
excited that i have to buy that course
because it was like copywriting you know
copywriting i think that works very well
and i was like really excited to buy
that course
so it was great
have you tried
learning hindi
hindi is like much popular in india and
like your surname is also patel neil
patel if the indian people uh means they
relate to you
it's like uh world's top digital
marketer is neil patel and is it is like
indian name indian brand you look like
indian yeah so uh i i haven't learned
hindi it's not that popular in america
because everyone's here speaks english i
know gujarati though
gujarati you know
yeah i don't know gujarati so can you uh
speak a little bit about what you know
gujarati like people will really like
your wordings and your speech
yeah i i can talk fluently in gujarati
like
like i just said
neil right
but
because i grew up you know with my
parents speaking gujarati but yeah i
don't know hindi i just they only taught
me gujarati
yeah it's great neil what do you like to
eat like what are your favorite dishes
and everything people want to know
indian food is my favorite i still eat
uh chicken tikka masala
i love garlic naan um i love chole
pani puri
so i'll just
you know there's a lot of dishes
so uh your uh if i'll a little bit
little bit personal your kids uh
they don't they've never told you like
uh papa let's visit to india or
i've been to india before many times
i just haven't gone recently because
i've been busy but i've been to india
before
yeah so neil i just want to last last
question
when i approach you for this interview
what are your thinkings what are your
thoughts about me like i'm an indian or
i'm into hindi videos and let's do this
interview what are your thoughts i want
to know i want to share with this my
audience as
well yeah why not i just said yeah why
not
so it would be fun
and it was fun it's my pleasure i was in
in front of you i've interviewed you
i've asked some literally so many
questions and you answered very fluently
in english and you were like really very
humble guy and goodbye
sunil it was like bye-bye
take care thanks for having